Hello and welcome.
My name is Rene and I'll be sharing with
you, how to create a report using Pivot.
To access the Pivot interface,
click Pivot on the navigation menu.
The first step is to select
a prebuilt data model.
Now the data model allows you
to create compelling reports and
dashboards without having to know
how to write complex search queries.
As a side note data models are typically
created by a knowledge manager that
understands their
organization's index data.
Grasps the search language and
are familiar with lookups,
transactions, field extractions and
calculated fields.
For our example, we're going to
use Buttercup Games Online Sales.
Now, this data model includes
the online sales activities.
It's made up of nine objects.
Each object represents a specific set
of events in a hierarchical structure.
The http request would include the largest
number of events in this data model.
The next object, successful request,
would be a subset of the http
request events and so on.
Let's say that we want to create a report
for purchases over the last seven days.
We would select the most
appropriate object.
In this case we're going to
select successful purchase.
After you have selected the object
you will notice that a new
Pivot view will display.
If you notice, the count of
successful purchase is the total
number of events for this specific object.
Now, it is based off of all time.
Before you begin, you should have an idea
of what type of report you want to create.
So let's say that we
want to create a bar chart.
We're going to select that
from the left navigation pane.
So the third icon will allow me
to click and select Bar Chart.
So at this point we are ready
to start building our report.
The first selection is Time Range.
Let's set that to the last seven days.
The next one is Filter, now we don't need
to define Filter, because we've already
selected an object of successful purchase
and that's what we're reporting against.
Now, for my x axis,
I'm going to select product name.
You'll notice that I can set the label.
I can set the sort order.
I can even set how many
maximum bars that I want.
The next thing to define is the y axis.
At this time it's set to
count of successful purchase.
But I want the total sales by product.
So I'm going to select price and
then you'll notice that my
value is already set to sum.
So I'm going to keep it as sum.
My report is starting to look really good.
But after reviewing it I might decide that
I want to see values segmented by host.
So let's do that,
in order to set the segmentation
of a specific product name I could go and
set the color to the field that I want.
So I'm going to select Host.
Now, you'll see that my total
sales are segmented by host.
So we really like this report.
Let's go ahead and save it.
So we're going to click on Save As.
Select report and give it a title.
Let's call it Product Sales by Host.
We're going to click Save and
then we're going to view our report.
It was that easy to create
a report through Pivot.
Now, let's just say that we want to go and
work with another Pivot.
This time we're going to just go and
create a statistic table
to view some of that data.
Let's go ahead and click Pivot again.
We'll select the same data model.
Buttercup games online sales and
let's keep to the object that
we're familiar with right now,
successful purchases.
As I mentioned, I want to just
simply create a statistic table.
I want to show you how
we'd go about doing that.
So the first step is to think about what
are some of the row data that you want?
Let's just assume that we want to view
the product names within their categories.
So, let's go ahead, under Split Rows,
we're going to select category first.
Notice that I can set a label if I want.
Let's go ahead and
set it capitalized category.
I'm going to add that to my table.
You'll see that it
becomes the first column.
Now I want to add another column.
Let's go ahead and
click the plus right next to categories.
Again we're still working
with the split rows.
I'm going to select product name, again if
you want to set a label you can do that.
Now this is the label of our column.
Add to table.
And I want you to notice that
now we are viewing each product
within their category.
Now at this point if you look at
the statistic that is being defined,
it's the count of successful purchases.
That is defined as column values.
Now if I want to add to this,
I can append and have another column.
Let's go ahead and click the plus next
to the Count of successful purchase.
This time I want to add the price.
And you'll notice that I have
different values available.
I could do a Sum, a Count,
an Average, Max, Min.
Let's keep it as a Sum and
let's add a label of Total Sales.
And let's Add To Table.
So this is just to show you
how quick it is to go and
build a table with the statistics
that you would need.
Now at this point, if ever you decide,
I only want to view the data for
the last seven days.
Just note that you could go
back up to your filter and
your first filter is
based off of all time.
So we could set that to
the last seven days.
So of course that the data
in our table will change.
Now, the last thing I want to show you
here is if ever you did want to see
the count and the total sales per host,
as we've defined in our previous example.
That is where you could go
to the split columns and
define how you wish to
split that information.
So let's go ahead and select host again.
And I'm just going to
click on add to table.
Now I could see that the information
has been split by host.
I have www1 count of successful
purchases as well as total sales.
And then I have the split of www2 I have
the count and the total sales and etc.
So this concludes our short
video hope you enjoy it.
Thank you.